refactor Supported Data Platform Page (#2032)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/supported-data-platforms.md

id: "supported-data-platforms"
---

dbt connects to and runs SQL against your database, warehouse, lake or query engine. To keep things simple, we group all of these SQL-speaking things into one bucket called "data platforms". dbt can be extended to any data platform by means of a dedicated _adapter plugin_. These plugins are built as separate Python modules that dbt Core will discover them if they are installed on your system. All the adapters listed below are open source and free to use, just like dbt Core.

To learn more about adapters, check out ["What Are Adapters"](contributing/adapter-development/1-what-are-adapters).

## Adapter Installation

> With two exceptions [^1], all adapters listed below can be installed from PyPI using `pip install <ADAPTER-NAME>`. The installation will include `dbt-core` and any other required dependencies, which may include other adapter plugins. Read more about [installing dbt](dbt-cli/install/overview).

Reviewer: Maybe get rid of the "two" here and just leave it as "some" or "a few" so that you don't have to maintain that if/when the list changes.

Author: ```suggestion
With a few exceptions [^1], all adapters listed below can be installed from PyPI using `pip install <ADAPTER-NAME>`. The installation will include `dbt-core` and any other required dependencies, which may include both other dependencies and even other adapter plugins. Read more about [installing dbt](dbt-cli/install/overview).
```

## Adapter Taxonomy

### Verified by dbt Labs

> We have two tiers for dbt-core adapters: "Verified" and "Community".

Reviewer: > We have two tiers for dbt-core adapters: "Verified" and "Community".

For simplicity, I'd get rid of the table here and just explain along the lines that a subset of the adapters go through a rigorous(?) verification process across development, documentation, user experience and maintenance. These adapters earn a "Verified" designation so that users can have a certain level of trust and expectation when they use them.

Author: see my edit in [this comment](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/2032/files#r978182954)

> We have two tiers for dbt-core adapters: "Verified" and "Community".
> 
> | Tier      | Relevant adapters                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | Verified  | The adapters: <li>maintained by dbt Labs as well as</li><li> partner-maintained adapters that have been verified by dbt Labs</li>                                                                                                                                                                  |
> | Community | <li>All other partner-maintained adapters as well as</li> <li>all community adapters.</li> Community adapters in particular tend to be works-in-progress. Contributions from users are highly encouraged (see ["Contributing to a pre-existing adapter"](#contributing-to-a-pre-existing-adapter)) |

Author: @nkothari here's my draft of what you suggested

```suggestion
In order to provide a more consistent and reliable experience, dbt Labs now has a rigorous process by which we verify adapter plugins. The process covers aspects of development, documentation, user experience and maintenance. These adapters earn a "Verified" designation so that users can have a certain level of trust and expectation when they use them. To learn more see ["Verifying a new adapter](7-verifying-a-new-adapter")

We also welcome and encourage adapter plugins from the dbt community (see the below ["Contributing to a pre-existing adapter"](#contributing-to-a-pre-existing-adapter)). Please note that these community maintainers are intrepid volunteers who owe you nothing, but give anyway -- so be kind and understanding, and help out where you can!
```

Reviewer: LGTM!

### Maintainers

Who made and maintains and adapter is certainly relevant, but we recommend using an adapter's verification status to determine quality and health of an adapter. So far we have three categories of maintainers:

> | Supported by | Description                                                                                                                |

Reviewer: > Supported by

I'd recommend changing this to "Maintained by"

Author: ```suggestion
| Supported by | Maintained By                                                                                                                |
```

| ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | dbt Labs     | dbt Labs maintains a set of adapters for some of the most common databases, warehouses, and platforms.                     |

Reviewer: > adapters

For consistency, should this be "adapter plugins" as is the case in the rest of the table? Also, I think this is a good opportunity to just be open about how we ended up with the ones we maintain. Something about citing that these adapter plugins were developed by dbt Labs in the earliest days of dbt Core and were initially managed together in the same repository. We no longer take on maintaining any new adapters as Partners are better suited to do this both from a scale and expertise standpoint (which is covered in the line below)

Author: ```suggestion
| dbt Labs     | dbt Labs maintains a set of adapter plugins for some of the most common databases, warehouses, and platforms. As for why particular data platforms were chosen, see ["Why Verify an Adapter"](7-verifying-a-new-adapter#why-verify-an-adapter)                 |
```

| Partner      | These adapter plugins are built and maintained by the same people who build and maintain the complementary data technology |
| Community    | These adapter plugins are contributed and maintained by members of the community 🌱                                       |

> Note that, while no community plugins are currently supported in dbt Cloud, we expect this to change in the near future.

Reviewer: > Note that, while no community plugins are currently supported in dbt Cloud, we expect this to change in the near future.

Can we just remove this? It doesn't really bring any clarity or hope without specifics, and this in my view is something that belongs on a Product roadmap rather than our open docs?

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Supported Data Platforms

### Verified Adapters

> | Data Platform     | Adapter Repository                                             | latest verified version  | Cloud support      | Profile Setup                            | Configuration                                                | Slack Channel                                                             | Maintained By |

Reviewer: > Cloud support

Can we frame this as: "Enabled in dbt Cloud" or if that's too long, maybe just "dbt Cloud availability"

> Slack Channel
dbt Community Slack channel

Author: ```suggestion
| Data Platform     | Adapter Repository                                             | latest verified version  | Enabled in dbt Cloud      | Profile Setup                            | Configuration                                                | dbt Community Slack channel                                                             | Maintained By |
```

### Community Adapters

| Data Platform          | Adapter Repository                                                                              | Profile Setup                              | Configuration                              | Slack Channel                                                     | Maintained By |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Athena                 | [dbt-athena](https://github.com/Tomme/dbt-athena)                                               | [Athena Profile](athena-profile)           |                                            | [#db-athena](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C013MLFR7BQ)       | Community     |

> | ClickHouse             | [dbt-clickhouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/dbt-clickhouse)                                  | [Clickhouse Profile](clickhouse-profile)   | [Clickhouse Configs](clickhouse-configs)   | [#db-redshift](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C01DRQ178LQ)     | Clickhouse    |

Reviewer: > #db-redshift

Points to Redshift instead of ClickHouse?

Author: great catch!
```suggestion
| ClickHouse             | [dbt-clickhouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/dbt-clickhouse)                                  | [Clickhouse Profile](clickhouse-profile)   | [Clickhouse Configs](clickhouse-configs)   | [#db-clickhouse](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C03KVDLMNV6)     | Clickhouse    |
```

| Greenplum              | [dbt-greenplum](https://github.com/markporoshin/dbt-greenplum)                                  | [Greenplum Profile](greenplum-profile)     | [Greenplum Configs](greenplum-configs)     | n/a                                                               | Community     |
| Hive                   | [dbt-hive](https://github.com/cloudera/dbt-hive)                                                | [Hive Profile](hive-profile)               | [Hive Configs](hive-configs)               | [#db-hive](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C0401DTNSKW)         | Cloudera      |
| Impala                 | [dbt-impala](https://github.com/cloudera/dbt-impala)                                            | [Impala Profile](impala-profile)           | [Impala Configs](impala-configs)           | [#db-impala](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C03K2PTHHTP)       | Cloudera      |
| iomete                 | [dbt-iomete](https://github.com/iomete/dbt-iomete)                                              | [iomete Profile](iomete-profile)           |                                            | [#db-iomete](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C03JFG22EP9)       | Iomete        |

> | Layer Bigquery         | [dbt-layer](https://github.com/layerai/dbt-layer)                                               | [Layer Profile](layer-profile)             |                                            | [#tools-layer](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C03STA39TFE)     | Layer AI      |

Reviewer: > Layer Bigquery

Might have to just call this Layer? BigQuery is Google's trademark product name, don't think Layer can use it like this.

Reviewer 2: It's also a single repo/plugin that now supports both BigQuery + Snowflake (https://github.com/layerai/dbt-layer/pull/125)

Author: ah didn't notice that @jtcohen6 -- i'll ask them to update their profile docs page then
```suggestion
| Layer         | [dbt-layer](https://github.com/layerai/dbt-layer)                                               | [Layer Profile](layer-profile)             |                                            | [#tools-layer](https://getdbt.slack.com/archives/C03STA39TFE)     | Layer AI      |
```
